[MUSIC]
So back at the start of the course,
we encountered the apples and
bananas problems.
How to find the price of things
when we only have the total bill.
And we've looked at vectors so far.
And now we're going to look at matrices.
And these are objects that rotate and
stretch vectors.
But they're also objects that let
us solve these sorts of problems.
So let's go back to that apples and
bananas problem.
Say I walk into a shop and
I buy two apples, and three bananas,
and that that costs 8 euros.
So I'm saying 2 apples,
3 bananas, cost 8 euros.
Now say I go to the shop on another
day and I buy 10 apples and 1 banana.
And that that costs me, or
the shopkeeper charges me 13 euros.
And I want to discover what the price for
1 apple and 1 banana is, so
I can decide which offers better value or
even just predict my bill.
Now you might say this is silly.
What shop doesn't have
sticker prices after all?
But actually in business with complicated
products and service agreements and
higher purchase, this sort of thing,
price discovery, happens all the time.
Think about what happens when
you buy a car for instance.
Now these are just simultaneous equations,
but I can write them down in another way.
The way I would write this down
with matrices would be as follows.
So I'd write it down as this matrix,
what I'm now calling a matrix,
an object with numbers in 2 3 10 1.
a b, = 8 13.
And these things I call matrices.
This is a 2 by 2 matrix.
This is a 2 row by 1 column matrix.
And this is another 2
row by 1 column matrix.
And the instruction here is to multiply
this out in the following way.
So I would multiply the elements in
the rows by the elements in the column.
So I'd multiply 2 by a, plus 3 times b.
So that row times that column, and
I'd say that equaled the top
row on the right-hand side.
And I do the same for the next row,
that row times that column is 10a plus 1b,
is equal to the row on the bottom
on the right-hand side.
And that looks like my two
simultaneous equations.
But this is really handy, because these
things, notice, look like vectors.
So this matrix operates on this
vector to give this other vector, and
my question is, what vector transforms
to give me this guy on the right?
Now let's look at what
happens if I multiply this
matrix here by the unit basis vector,
the x axis vector.
Well when I do that multiplication,
I'm going to get 2 times 1 plus 3 times 0.
And I'm going to get 10
times 1 plus 1 times 0.
So I get the vector 2 10.
So what this does is it takes
the little unit vector which
we called e1 hat, and
it transforms it to another place.
Which is 2 10,
which is going to be up here somewhere.
So that's e1 hat, changed,
and that's equal to 2 10.
Now if I do that with
the other basis vector.
If I do 2 3 10 1 multiplied by 0 1.
Then I'm going to get 2 times
0 times plus 3 times 1.
10 times 0 plus 1 times 1,
I'm going to get 3 1.
So the other basis vector,
e2 hat, gets transformed
over to 3 1,
which is going to be over here somewhere.
So that's e2 changed, I'm using
the prime here to indicate changed, 3 1.
So what this matrix does,
is it moves the basis vectors in some way,
it transforms them, it changes the space.
So what this matrix 2 3 10 1 does
is it's a function that operates on input
vectors and gives us other output vectors.
And a set of simultaneous equations
here is asking, in effect,
what vector I need in order to get a
transformed product at the position 8 13.
In order to get an output of 8 13.
Now we can see what we mean now
by the term linear algebra.
Linear algebra is linear, because it
just takes input values, our a and
b, and multiplies them by constants.
So everything is linear.
And it's algebra, that is it's a notation
describing mathematical objects and
a system of manipulating those notations.
So linear algebra is
a mathematical system for
manipulating vectors in the spaces
described by vectors.
So this is interesting.
There seems to be some kind of deep
connection between simultaneous equations,
these things called matrices, and the
vectors we were talking about last week.
And it turns that the key to solving
simultaneous equation problems is
appreciating how vectors
are transformed by matrices,
which is the heart of linear algebra.
>> [MUSIC]